Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we will be setting up our game and the game, Luke.
All right, so the way that I've created this game is that we do have a canvas element, there are some
basic styling that I'm not going to go over.
So we are just straight forward jump.
We are going to jump into the JavaScript file.
So first off, let's create a canvas element and we are going to say document now because it is in the
HTML.
We need to select it.
Right.
So query selector.
Canvas and the context, I'm just going to call it Cong's, right, and it is going to be canvas element
does not get context and it is going to be tudy perfect.
Let's give the canvas some height.
So the height of the canvas is going to be 400.
The canvas elements with.
Is as well 400, let's create our game parameters, so game parameters and now our speed is going to
be seven.
Right.
So it is going to be seven.
We are going to have a number of tiles, so the tile count is 20.
We have too many tiles and we have 400 of with and 400 of height.
So basically, we have to enter into 20 title tiles.
All right.
So these tiles are actually where the snake actually moves.
So the snake is not like randomly moving on the screen.
The snake is moving on these tiles.
We are going to have a position for the head of the snake.
So we are going to say Sneyd Hech Head X, so the horizontal position of the head of the snake, that
is going to be 10, the vertical.
So Snake Head Y is also going to be 10.
Our initial initial X velocity is going to be zero, our initial Y velocity is going to be zero and
I'm going to provide the position for our snack as well.
So I'm going to say let snack.
This is going to be the exposition of the snark, which is five, and these parameters are going to
kick in whenever we start the game and we are going to say snack y, and that's also going to be to
the snake by default is going to have a tail and the tail is going to have a length.
So it is going to be snake tail length.
That is going to be close to two and our initial score is going to be zero because the score is drawn
in JavaScript, perfect.
We do have only one derived dimension, derived dimension, and that is the tile size.
So tile count is 20.
What is the tile size?
The tile size is our canvas aliments with.
Uh, divided by.
The tile count, tile count, which which should give us like to twenty pixels, right to an end to
twenty.
We get 400.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and let's actually create the game loop.
So in here, I'm just going to create this kind of comment and I'm going to say the game loop.
And in here, let's go ahead and let's call the function.
Play a game.
Now, this we are going to do differently.
We are going we are not going to do request animation frame, we are not even going to do a set interval.
We are going to use another timer and that is set time out, said time out is going to grab is going
to do something for us in one second.
How many times the number of speed times and what is it going to do for us in that amount.
And it is going to call this function that many times in one second.
In one second.
So if I were to say console log running.
Running and we should actually call this mayor, call this function so it executes as well.
So let me go ahead and open this up with live server.
There we go.
So let me bring it here.
Let's inspect if I come here and if I zoom in a little bit, you can see that it is precisely being
called below that, precisely being called seven times per second, as opposed to our request animation
frame, which takes into account the FP sorry, the screen refresh rate, which is 60 hertz.
So it's refreshers or redraws the screen 60 times per second.
That is not something that we want y because as we increase the number of times the screen is being
redrawn, we are actually increasing the speed.
There we go.
That is the logic behind this game.
So let's say we put it to 10.
So that was you can see now it is faster.
It was seven.
Now it is 10.
If I put it to 30, it is going to execute this function 30 times per second.
So the the more you want this function to be executed in per second, then the faster it has to go to
keep up with that one second.
So if I put it to 30, you can see that it is going to be way faster.
If we put it to our usual 60, you can see that it has executed 60 times per one second.
We don't want to do that.
We just want it to be executed seven times per second.
And then we will increment this whenever the score is increased or whenever the snake eats a snack.
We want to increase this by point five point one.
So seven point one, seven point two, seven point whatever.
And this is actually how we are going to create this game.
So now that that is out of the way, what I would like to do is I would like to create a function called
clear screen.
And this function is basically responsible for creating the screen that we have.
So I'm going to grab this comment and I'm going to put it right here.
It is going to be clear screen function.
So function clear screen.
Basically, we want to draw a the canvas now give it to background so that film style should be Bellac.
You can do you can do any color that you want and it is going to be fairly wrecked.
The exposition is going to be zero, the Y position zero, the with canvas elements with canvas element
dart width and the height canvas element tight.
Not that canvas element.
Let's save that and let's come here.
There we go.
That is our canvas.
I'm just going to zoom out inside the console and put it here in case we have some errors.
There are.
Right.
So the next thing that I would like to do is I would like to set up an event, an event listener, and
that is going to listen for Arrow Keys event this tinner.
All right, and let's grab this comment and let's put it there.
Perfect.
So where the event is going to be attached to the document, not specifically a specific area, just
the document itself.
And the event is going to be key down.
So whenever the key is down, we want to do something that something is going to be done within the
context of this function.
So it is going to be the key down function now.
Why don't we go ahead and create that key down function, so I'm going to come beneath here and copy
that, let's put it here and let's say key down, so function key down, it is going to accept our event
object associated with this key down.
So we are going to grab.
So because we have four directions, we are going to create fourth statements.
Each of these statements is going to be responsible for with it responsible for a certain key code.
If that key code is pressed, we want the snake to go in that direction.
So first off, let's handle moving up.
So we are going to say f e that key code.
I think we have already talked about these key codes whenever we when we talked about that, move the
ball.
So basically this part is going to be the same as that project.
So for the key code of moving up, we have 38.
That is the key code.
You can basically just say E Council Logi, just Sloggett E, and then I'd like to press on all the
keys and then that is going to give you the event is going to give you the event specific for that specific
key that you press is going to give you the keycard.
We have gone over it like a thousand times.
So if the key code is that what do we want to do?
We want to check if we are moving up or not.
So if the Y velocity equals one, it means we are moving up, right.
But when we are moving up, basically, what do we want to do?
Now this so we have 38, 37, 38, 39, 40, so the key is correct, so if the kicker is 38, we want
to go up, right.
But if the velocity is one, it means that it is going down.
We want to return.
We don't want to go up.
It means that we don't want to go in the same direction up and down.
I'm going to come in this one out so it makes more sense.
So if we want to go up the velocity, basically we just set it to minus one.
Perfect.
And the X velocity is going to be zero.
So this is moving up.
Let's handle moving down as well so we can really see what this comment is, all parties.
So for moving down, we are going to say minus one here and one here and the key code is going to be
40.
Let's save that.
Let's come here.
We haven't drawn our snake yet.
We should go ahead and draw our snake first before we can do anything with it.
So to be able to actually see something here, I'm going to go ahead and draw our snake so the draw
snake function, we are going to call it within our game loop.
All right.
So beneath there, I'm just going to say draw snakes so we can actually see something beneath our clear
screen.
Copy that.
Put it here, we have drawer snake.
So it is going to be a function draw snake.
What do we want to do here now?
Basically, our snake is a rectangle, right?
So let's go ahead and draw a rectangle.
So we're going to say Phil style, the head of the snake itself is going to be green.
And what is going to be the position?
Now, we want the position to be wherever based on the tile count.
Right.
That we have.
So we want to say that.
Phil RACT.
It's going to be so let's grab this snake's head X and let's multiply it by the tail count, the tail
count is going to be 20, right.
And then we are going to grab the snake head y y position and multiply it by the tail count.
That is going to be another 20.
And then the size itself, the size of the head is going to be the tail size, the width and tail size,
the height.
So if I save that and come here, you can see that this is so far from here, all the way to here is
20 tails from here, all the way to here is 20 tails.
That's directly there, right?
So all right, so that our snake is drawn as well.
Now, let's see if we can actually move it so up, down.
It is not being moved because the reason for that is we are not actually changing the position.
We need to go ahead and change the position of the snake as well.
All right, so first off, let's go ahead and let's call that function, so change snake position.
All right, and let's go down the snake itself and in here, I'm going to grab that and I'm going to
put it right here and we are going to say change.
You know what?
I'm just going to grab it from here and put it right here.
Perfect.
So we are going to say function change snake position.
Now we want to change the position of the head of the snake.
Right.
The body we are not yet concerned about because we haven't drawn the body.
When we draw it, then we are going to concern ourselves.
Now we want to change this position by the amount of weight velocity in the X with the X velocity,
Y with the Y velocity.
So we are going to grab the head and we are going to add onto the X velocity.
Let's do the same thing for Y.
That is going to be why and.
This is going to be why as well, and let's save it.
Let's come here so you can see that I'm going up and when I press the down arrow, I'm going down.
But imagine that this snake has some body.
If you go off, how can you possibly coming down?
That is not possible.
For example, in this case, if I go up, I cannot come down.
You can see.
And it hits the the upper wall and it says game over.
That's why we are going to come in this one out these these ones.
And sorry, because whenever we are moving in one certain direction, we do not want to immediately
go reverse.
That is not something that we want to do.
That's why we are returning from we are returning from the function.
So let's copy it a couple of times.
And next up, let's go to left left.
Now, if the key code for left is going to be 37, perfect.
If it is 37, first off, we need to check if it isn't if we are not moving in the positive extraction.
Right.
So if it is in the positive direction, we are going to return.
Let's grab it.
Put it down here.
Now, the why the velocity for the X is going to be, of course, negative one and the Y is going to
be zero.
So we can only like travel.
The snake can only travel in one specific direction.
And for right, the key code is going to be 39, first off, let's check if it is not moving to the
left, if it's moving, if it is moving there, just return and let's swap these two values, values,
dispositions.
And let's make the velocity zero and the X velocity plus one.
So now we should be able to move left, up, right, left, up, right, down, left, up, right,
down.
And of course, we are moving our out of the canvas because we have not added any collision detection,
but we are going to do that.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.